---
title: "2023-04-24"
tags:
- journal
---

Fixed issue from [[journal/2023-04-22|2023-04-22]] with created directories for container. Now it looks like this:
```
data
└── user
    └── test-lamp
        ├── db
        └── html
```

I noticed my MySQL container exited with status `1`. With a quick `podman logs`, I figured out I omitted environment variables.
But quickly, I had a problem: some variable have default values, others has to be generated later (example, password), others must be provided and fail if not. I've created a `envvar.go` file in `internal/runtimes` to address this issue.

At the core, env var have a name, a default values, and what I called modifiers. Just as for mount points, I parse Dockerfile to retrieve the information and put it in a struct. Default values come from `ENV` instructions, modifiers and var without default come from label `studentbox.config.env`. This is to assure compatibility with any tool using the `ENV` instructions of dockerfiles/containerfile. But that might change later, so I keep the coupling level at the minimum. Note from Michelle: it's anticipating change. Meaning parsing and applying modifiers is two distinct jobs (both deal with `EnvVar` struct).

In the end, I declare "official" runtimes with `go generate`, that will read and parse files in `./runtimes/` to create file `./internal/runtimes/generated.go`, that export a single map `OfficialRuntimes`. A new runtime just have to create a new directory in `./runtimes`, create the needed containerfile, add labels and that's it: runtime will be build by Github actions and will have an official entry in OfficialRuntimes.

I've written unit tests for `envvar.go`.